Propagate trace when using ThreadPoolExecutor (#209)
apache/skywalking-website: content/blog/2021-02-04-skywalking-trace-threadpool/index.md

---
title: "Apache SkyWalking: How to propagate context between threads when using ThreadPoolExecutor"

> date: 2021-02-04

Reviewer: 2 things left.
1. Are you sure, MyWrapper is a good name to deliver for the end user?
2. If (1) is not problem, please update this to the current date, and no block from me.

Author: I remove the MyWrapper and process.png.
There is also some little change to make the logic clear.

author: "Binglong Li"
description: "This post introduces how to propagate context between threads when using ThreadPoolExecutor, 

> which skywalking agent can not enhance"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which SkyWalking agent should not enhance"
```

tags:
- Java
- Agent
- Tracing

> - thread

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: What about adding a ThreadPoolExecutor tag?

Reviewer: tag is only for widely used in multiple blogs.

---

> When using skywalking java agent, people usually propagate context easily. They even do not need to change the business 

Reviewer: All `skywalking` should be `SkyWalking`

code. However, it becomes harder when you want to propagate context between threads when using ThreadPoolExecutor. 
You can use the RunnableWrapper in the maven artifact org.apache.skywalking:apm-toolkit-trace. This way you must change 
your code. The developer manager usually don't like this because there may be lots of projects, or lots of runnable code. 
If they don't use skywalking some day, the code added will be superfluous and inelegant.

Is there a way to propagate context without changing the business code? Yes. 

> Skywalking java agent enhances an instance by add a field and implement an interface. The ThreadPoolExecutor is a special

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Skywalking java agent enhances a class by add a field and implement an interface. The ThreadPoolExecutor is a special
```

> class that is used widely. We even don't know when and where it is loaded. Most JVMs do not allow changes in the class

Reviewer: I think this sentence is not correct. Bytebuddy, technically could enhance the class, but it is used inside agent core, and we are not sure the side-effect due to its widely used.

Author: > So skywalking can not always enhance the ThreadPoolExecutor properly.

I think it's ambiguous to just using "enhance". We enhance, but fail to replace the loaded ThreadPoolExecutor. 
The following sentence is more clear.
So skywalking can not enhance the ThreadPoolExecutor successfully by retransforming when the ThreadPoolExecutor has been loaded.

> file format for classes that have been loaded previously. So skywalking can not always enhance the ThreadPoolExecutor 

Reviewer: Not `can not`, is `should not`

properly. However, we can apply advice to the ThreadPoolExecutor#execute method and wrap the Runnable param using our 
own agent, then enhance the wrapper class by skywalking java agent. An advice do not change the layout of a class.

Now we should decide how to do this. You can use the RunnableWrapper in the maven artifact 

> org.apache.skywalking:apm-toolkit-trace to wrap the param, but you will face another problem. This RunnableWrapper 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
org.apache.skywalking:apm-toolkit-trace to wrap the param, but you need to face another problem. This RunnableWrapper 
```

> has a plugin whose active condition is checking if there is @TraceCrossThread. Byte buddy in
> skywalking will use net.bytebuddy.pool.TypePool.Default.WithLazyResolution.LazyTypeDescription to find the annotations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
has a plugin whose active condition is checking if there is @TraceCrossThread. Agent core uses net.bytebuddy.pool.TypePool.Default.WithLazyResolution.LazyTypeDescription to find the annotations
```

of a class. The LazyTypeDescription finds annotations by using a URLClassLoader with no urls if the classloader is
null(bootstrap classloader). So it can not find the @TraceCrossThread class unless you change the LocationStrategy of
skywalking java agent builder.

> In [this project](https://github.com/libinglong/skywalking-threadpool-agent), I write my own wrapper class, 

Reviewer: Some issues of your codes
1. System.out is used, https://github.com/libinglong/skywalking-threadpool-agent/blob/main/src/main/java/net/bird/listener/TransformListener.java#L43
2. You are not shading anything, so, users could face bytebuddy conflict.
3. You are declaring, SkyWalking 7, which is not suitable, and where do you need SkyWalking agent? https://github.com/libinglong/skywalking-threadpool-agent/blob/main/pom.xml#L14

Author: 1. added slf4j
2. shaded byte buddy 
> You are declaring, SkyWalking 7, which is not suitable, and where do you need SkyWalking agent?

Now I have added a plugin which uses the SkyWalking 7

Reviewer: The official main repo has declared we are focusing on SkyWalking 8.x only, which has nearly no different at the agent side, please test with SkyWalking 8, and make them working well.

Author: OK. I will add a compatibility sheet.

and simply add a plugin with a name match condition.

> Finally, note you should add your own agent after the skywalking agent since the wrapper class should not be loaded before

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, note you should add this agent after the skywalking agent since the wrapper class should not be loaded before
```

> skywalking agent instrumentation have finished.

Reviewer: Recommend to share a `java -javaagent:` example here.

Reviewer: Also, you could have release on your own repo, and guide users to your release page. It will be easier for the users.
